---
layout: post
title:      "formated like this"
date:       2020-06-23 01:07:24 +0000
permalink:  formated_like_this
---

**The Movie Analysis Project**

Time passes quickly as I am approaching the last day to finish my first project. It has been a great journey so far. I started this project by spending a couple of hours on the internet to learn about the film industry. I came across an article about how Netflix became a multi-billion dollar company in just 20 years. I am inspired to learn that it is important for leaders to have clear visions. The company was found by leasing DVDs to customers through mail service. The legend has it that Reed Hastings got charged for a $40 late fee when he returned Apollo 13 so he wanted to provide a better rental service that offered no late fee. After 10 years in the business, the founders of Netflix Marc Randolph and Reed Hastings knew that the DVD rental business would not last forever and saw the value in streaming technologies. In 2007, Netflix introduced its online streaming service. Since then, there are many companies also provide streaming service such as Amazon, Disney, Hulu, and Apple to name a few. However, Microsoft does not currently offer one. This made me think that this project might be more real than just a class project acting as a showcase for what we have learned so far about coding. 

After learning about Netflix's successful story, I think that for Microsoft to compete with other streaming services, it needs to produce the contents that attract the audience and offer it to their existing customers maybe with an additional charge on their subscriptions. With initial successful movies, they will attract more subscribers. If this is the route to take, then what movies to make and how much should they invest per movie. To answer these questions, I needed to join the budget table with genres. To know who the producers and writers are for these movies, I joined that with the name table. And now the data cleaning process began. 

The goal of this project is to demonstrate my understanding of the concept and the process of data science. Data science is a multidisciplinary field that involves statistics, programming, communication, and business according to the Data Scientist Venn Diagram. It starts from a business agenda to data mining (although not so much since we were given the data), data cleaning, data exploration, data visualization and finally presenting the findings typically to the stakeholders. The process is the same regardless of what projects. I am glad to learn this from the start. 

I began day 2 with data cleaning. My work involved a ton of googling. I split my monitor into two. The left-hand side is my code window and on my right is the Google window. I mapped out step by step on how to achieve my goal. For example, I eventually need to join the budget table with the tables containing producers, writers, popularity, and genres together. To do that I needed to find what they have in common and join by that. That was not too hard. However, the challenge for me was to read the errors and learn to debug. Type function is a very useful first step to debug. With this method, I resolved many errors. The second type of error that I made often is logic errors. I have not developed a good sense of what allowed and not allowed in python. The error messages for this type of error are usually very general which makes it hard to understand what I did wrong. I learned that when I turned section by section of my code into comments, I have better luck to figure out where the error is and fix that. It can be emotionally exhausting to get stuck and not be able to figure out why I had the errors. However, those moments also associated with many of my “ah-ha” moments. When I get stuck on one problem for too long, I tend to remember it longer. I guess it’s all paid off at the end. I did not finish cleaning the data until 2 days later. As Abhineet said, data cleaning is very time-consuming. Give me a "pat in the back" for having done it. 

I kept asking myself if I have fulfilled all the requirements for this project. I had a checklist written down on my notebook that I kept referring back from time to time. Although we were given a week for this project, I felt like I could use more time. Perhaps, there are different ways I could analyze the data I have, or maybe I could challenge myself and gather more data through web scraping. The idea sounded wonderful. Definitely, I will do that for next project! 

I spent a lot of time going back and forth between data cleaning and data visualization. I could not remember how many times I thought I got the graphs that I was looking for. It turned out to be something not making sense and I had to go back and cleaned up my code and extracted only what I needed. It was very nice to see after hours of data cleaning; I got some nice-looking graphs. Occasionally, I had to remove the graphs that served no real purpose for my data analysis. It hurt a little to remove them since I spent a lot of time to create them. Through this process, I also learned about different types of charts and graphs for different types of data and purposes.  The most common graphs/charts are bar graphs, histograms, pie charts, and Cartesian graphs. Bar graphs are used to show numbers that are independent of each other while line graphs are for showing how numbers changing over time. Cartesian graphs are used when changes in one object affect another. 

Before I started the boot camp, people told me that these boot camps are very intense. Yes, they call it a boot camp for a reason! I spent two months on Coursera and Edx to learn Python syntax for beginners. In this boot camp, I learned that in a few days. We are moving with the “speed of light”! Although time goes by very quickly, it is very fulfilling to see myself making progress each day. My favorite moments through-out this project were that when I hit “shift” + “enter”, beautiful graphs showed up on my screen. Definitely, it worth the “blood” and “sweat” as I joked around with my group. One person added “possibly tears” lol. 
