---
layout: post
title:      "formatted like this"
date:       2020-07-29 12:48:36 +0000
permalink:  formatted_like_this
---


**Data Adventure**

My journey to Data Science

I live in Silicon Valley – home of the world’s largest technology companies. It is the leading hub for high-tech innovation and development that accounts for one-third of all venture capital investment in the United States1. A large portion of my conversation with people I know is about technology such as, what is happening at Apple, Google, Tesla, and Facebook to name a few. Although my constant exposure to high tech through friends and family members for many years, I only started the journey in data science roughly 5 months ago. I became seriously thinking about learning data science after a friend showed me on his computer how he used data collected from the internet to analyze whether to invest in the stock market or the housing market. With some lines of code, he was able to get the data that is readily available on the internet he needed for his side project- the similar kind of data that my previous company spent years collecting. It made me wonder what other interesting data available out there for me to gladly analyze and find insights. I felt the sky is unlimited.

I love data. My background is biotechnology. I spent many years in the lab generating and analyzing data. The process starts by defining what questions to ask and then follows how to answer the questions. It involves designing the experiments, collecting and analyzing the data, and then interpreting the results. The data collection phase can take a couple of months to a few years while data analysis only takes a few days to a few weeks to complete. The bulk majority of the time is on data collection. From my own experience, it is very hard to design an experiment that will generate the kind of data they are looking for on their first trial. To have a solid product, most businesses have more than one prototype. I enjoy seeing how other scientists carry out similar experiments and how they overcome the challenges they may encounter through the process. When I attend a talk or a presentation, I curious about what kind of data people collect for their experiments and why. I also interested to know what other data they may collect but they did not present. To have a successful experiment, one may go through many failed attempts. 
Data science may have revolutionized the new method to conduct business. Big companies such as Amazon and Walmart use customer browsing information to understand their customers’ needs. Facebook leverages their account users to attract advertising which is the main bulk of their revenue. Steven S. Skiena, the author of the book “The Data Science Design Manual” states that new discoveries will come as soon as one is able to look at it.3 Indeed! An event that happens in China where it is thousands of miles away from the U.S can have a dramatic effect in the U.S. The recent coronavirus outbreak is an example of such an event. The disruptions of China’s manufacturing factories have ripple effects on the global economy. According to Statista, China accounts for almost 30% of the world’s manufacturing in 2018.4 The effect can be seen such that a delay in manufacturing in China will have a delay on the launch date of the subsequent new iPhone. The data may be gathered to evaluate how that will affect Apple’s sales revenue in the next coming months. Apple’s suppliers may use the information to decide their next quarter target production. In today’s economy, global changes can affect the business environment – no matter how big or small. 
As data become more readily available, it becomes the key to competitive advantage and an important business asset. For example, data provides information about the company's past and present performance which can be used to analyze for future business strategies, define goals, and identify opportunities. Data can be extracted to provide information on how to improve the relevance of products, target customers, and to train staff to focus on important issues or to recruit the right employees. The term shows me the data is a common and important line in the business meetings I attended. Data tells good stories. 
Data proves the company with information that how a company runs its business in response to changes in internal and external factors. The external factors are factors outside of a business but can have an impact on its success. Examples of external factors are politics, inflation, unemployment, changes in tastes, competition, and suppliers. A business cannot control external factors, but it can react to them through business decisions. Internal factors on the other hand are controllable such as culture, values, and atmosphere in the workplace. The first step toward making internal changes is to understand the current state of the organization. By surveying the employees, the business may have a better understanding of what the employees need to succeed. The next step is to strategize how to roll out changes before implementing them. 
Target audience: By using data science with the information your customer provides, you can combine data points to generate insights to target your audience more effectively. This means you can tailor services and products to particular groups. Finding correlations between age and income, for example, can help your company create new promotions or offers for groups that may not have been accessible before

Data Science Highly Promoting Continuous Learning 

Data analysis allows me to become more sophisticated in my thought process. To effectively analyze the data for a given problem, I need to understand the important attributes or the important features of the data. Not all variables have equal weights on significance. Typically, there are independent variables, such as time and location. There are dependent variables, such as price. The independent variable also refers to as Features are the inputs while the dependent variables are the output. Understanding the relationship between the features is vital for building models. Often, I may start with their opinions and judgments to explore the relationships of the independent and dependent variables. However, I also need to be open to explore the less obvious relationships – the ability to suspend myself so I can see “outside of the box.” A friend of mine, who spent years in grad school to pursue his Ph.D. in physics once told me that sometimes we have to let go of the old and not working approaches to make room for new ones. With that said, to effectively answer the question, I need to think from the perspective of a customer, a manufacturer, business owner, and more. I need to put myself in other roles to see from their points of view. Similarly, many successful companies leverage all available data they can get to gain new insights for their business. 

Google has become my best friend on this journey. When I come across an error that I don’t know how to fix, I go to Google to look for answers. There are unlimited resources available to me at my fingertips. The information on various topics and discussions is FAIR (findable, accessible, interoperable, and reusable). I don’t know many fields that have a lot of materials for free or a fraction of the cost. Moreover, the data science community is very large, very supportive, open, and welcoming. Everyone has a big heart and open to share. Many meetup groups offer classroom and online lectures on machine learning, data structure, and algorisms. I am glad to have found my new community!

References
1.	About Silicon Valley. https://archive.icann.org/en/meetings/siliconvalley2011/about.html
2.	Skiena, S. ed. (2017). The Data Science Design Manual. New York: Springer Nature.
3.	Richter, F. China Is the World's Manufacturing Superpower. https://www.statista.com/chart/20858/top-10-countries-by-share-of-global-manufacturing-output/

